security/aporeto/architecture/design_decisions.md, before:

# Zero Trust Model Implementation Design Decisions

## Technology behind Zero Trust Model
Aporeto cloud-native security solution was selected to implement the Zero-Trust Network security model on the BCDevExchange's Openshift Platform.

To learn more about Aporeto, its architecture and find links to other useful resources, click [here](./readme.md#aporeto-zero-trust-network-security-enforcement).

## Aporeto Namespaces
Aporeto namespaces are used to logically group objects such as, `enforcers`, `network access policies`, `external networks`, and so on. Each namespace can have a parent namespace and children namespaces. Access control can he placed at the namespace level, and any parent namespace can propogate it's objects to children namespaces. This is an important detail as the overall structure can help simplify the deployment of security policy across a large group of Aporeto peocessing units if placed at the right place in the hierarchy. 


### Namespace Naming Convention
At this point in time, the Aporeto namespace naming convention and heiarachy is intended to: 
- align with the appropriate teams who may need access to create/read/update/delete policy
- provide an overall governance/enforcement point at the root/parent namespace 
- support the pattern where teams outside of **Platform Services** will own and manage their own Aporeto resources and policies

The top level root/parent namespace is: 
- **/bcgov**

The next child namespaces provide separation between *Platform Services* and *other teams*: 
- **/bcgov/platform-services**
- **/bcgov/apps**

The next set of child namespaces identifies either the type of enviornment or the sector: 
- **/bcgov/platform-services/non-production**
- **/bcgov/platform-services/production**
- **/bcgov/apps/nr**

Please see the next section for the current namespace mapping policy. 

### Namespace Mapping Heirarchy and Access Control
The following table outlines the namespace heirarchy and high-level access / ownership. Please update this table periodically as new teams are onboarded into the platform. 

| Team / Sector     | Namespace                                                     | Description                                                     | Access Control                       | Notes                                                                                                             |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| The namespaces for platform related policies |
| Platform Services | /bcgov                                                        | Root / Parent Namespace                                         |                                      |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services                                      | Platform-Services enforcers and policies                        | DXC / Platform Services              |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production                       | Non Prod Container Platform Resources                           | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops              | Kamloops Non Prod Container Platform Resources                  | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops/lab          | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops/lab/ocp311   | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        | Holds all lab cluster enforcers and base policies                                                                 |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops/lab/ocp311/* | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        | Child namespaces are automatically created /mapped to OpenShift Projects. End users don’t leverage this cluster.  |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/production                           | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/production/kamloops                  | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/production/kamloops/pathfinder       | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        | Holds all production pathfinder cluster enforcers and base policies                                               |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/production/kamloops/pathfinder/*     | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        | Child namespaces are automatically created /mapped to OpenShift Projects                                          |
| Nobody            | /bcgov/apps                                                    | Parent namespace to hold sector related enforcers and policies for components **outside the Platform**  | No access definied at this level yet | General namespace to separate App or Team specific resources from Container Platform related resources            |
| NR                | /bcgov/apps/nr                                                | Natural Resources Sector                                        | NR Team                              |      Reserved for components outside the Platform                                                                                                             |
| NR                | /bcgov/apps/nr/non-prod                                       | Natural Resources Sector Non-Prod                               | Access propagated from parent        | Reserved for components outside the Platform                                                                                                                          |
| NR                | /bcgov/apps/nr/non-prod/calgary                               | Natural Resources Sector Non-Prod Calgary                       | Access propagated from parent        | Reserved for components outside the Platform                                                                                                                          |
### Namespace Automation
There are two key automations in place for Aporeto Namespace management: 
- The Aporeto Operator synchronizes OpenShift projects into child namespaces
- A Namespace Management playbook has been created to codify all higher-level namespaces and access control
  - Currently resides in the private repo [bcgov-c/platform-services-secops](https://github.com/bcgov-c/platform-services-secops)
  - This playbook should be used for authorization and namespace management and **manual configuration should be avoided**
  - The desire is likely to have this playbook fully integrated into a GitOps approach


## Base Policies 
A series of ["base" policies](../build/ansible/templates/network_access_policies) exist for the container platform specifically. These base policies are applied relative to the namespaces they need to be enforced upon; for example, the lab base policies are maintained in `/bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops/lab/ocp311` while the production pathfinder base policies are maintained in `/bcgov/platform-services/production/kamloops/pathfinder`. These base policies are used to ensure that the OpenShift platform operates correctly with Aporeto deployed and are configured during the installation of Aporeto into the platform. They do not leverage the [**BCGov NetworkSecurityPolicy Operator**](../architecture/high_level_design.md#the-bcgov-networksecuritypolicy-operator) that is used for managing application specific access policies, and as a result, these policies can only be managed by the Aporeto ansible playbook or through the Aporeto CLU/UI with the appropriate permissions. The playbook is the preferred method for updating base policies and ensuring all changes are captured in code. 

Please refer to the **Playbook Flow** section of the Ansible [Build Docs ](../build/ansible/readme.md#playbook-flow-install) for a list of the base policies and their descriptions. These are created in the `apply_policies.yml` section of the playbook. 

### Policy Naming Conventions
There are no hard restrictions on what developers will use for naming their policies. Every policy created by an end-user in the platform will be have a name that follows the convention: 
- `custom-[object-type]-[object-name]`

Developers can use any name that they wish for the `object-name`, however, it should be easy to determine what the policy does by it's name. This will help other team members when they are reviewing these objects. Some examples are outlined in the [developer guide](../docs/CustomPolicy.md). 

### Fallback Policies 
Aporeto has a concept of **Fallback Policies** that can be used to generate a more permissive and forgiving policy that would be used if users have not created any other matching policy. It was determined that with the desire to achieve a Zero Trust network enforcement policy that fallback policies are not leveraged in this deployment. New container-platform teams will need to consider the desired network flow of their applications as early as the design phase and will **manually create NetworkSecurityPolicy objects** at the first deployment to allow network traffic to flow. 

### Developer Controlled Policies
Each OpenShift project/namespace is directly mapped to an Aporeto child namespace and developers are enabled to create/read/edit/delete Network Access Policies for their applications. This is achieved through the **BCGov NetworkSecurityPolicy Operator** and `NetworkSecurityPolicy` custom resources. Please refer to the [Developer Docs](../docs/README.md) for additional details and instructions. 

**:point_up: Note**
> Child namespace Network Access Policies cannot override policies that are created at a parent or higher level. This permites teams to create more granular policies for their applications, but security teams within government can apply high-level policies that are propagated to these child namespaces. 

## Operations
This section describes any additional operational design decisions that apply to this solution. 

### Audit
The [Aporeto Console SaaS](../readme.md#accessing-the-console) solution provides a complete audit trail of every policy CRUD activity. It has a search engine that can be used to identify actions taken by specific users. 

### Backup
A backup CronJob has been created to backup all configurations and policy within the `/bcgov` namespace on a daily basis. This can be used as secondary audit trail of daily configuration changes and can be leveraged if needed to re-import specific configurations into the Aporeto SaaS console. These backups are stored in the private git repo [bcgov-c/platform-secops-netpol](https://github.com/bcgov-c/platform-secops-netpol). Please refer to that repository for more details if you have the required access. 


## Access Control 
Access control to namespaces is managed through the Namespace Automation playbook referenced above. In order for users to gain access to their namespace, they must: 
- have the appropriate authorization policy created by the Namespace Automation playbook
- have a proper email account tied to their github id
- be authorized by Keycloak as the OIDC provider and must have 2FA enabled

### OIDC Configuration: 
Currently 2 OIDC providers are available: 
- pathfinder-sso-prod
- pathfinder-sso-dev

It's likely we will remove the dev OIDC provider option as the solution is more widely used.
The KeyCloak prod intance uses the following realm for client access: `8gyaubgq`. Further details are avilable in the [admin docs](../admin/readme.md).

Commit message:

A couple of minor updates for Dev Guide (#447)
* A couple of minor updates for Dev Guide

* Added descriptions and metadata to all markdown files under security/aporeto that were included in Dev Guide

* minor heading change

security/aporeto/architecture/design_decisions.md, after:

---
description: An overview of some of the design decisions made as part of the Aporeto implementation on the BC Gov's Openshift platform.
tags:
- next gen security
- custom network policy
- Aporeto
- networksecuritypolicy
- zero trust
- openshift security
- platform security
- application identity
- policy backup
- policy change audit
- namespace hierarchy and ownership
---

# Zero Trust Network Model - Implementation Design Decisions

## Technology behind Zero Trust Model
Aporeto cloud-native security solution was selected to implement the Zero-Trust Network security model on the BCDevExchange's Openshift Platform.

To learn more about Aporeto, its architecture and find links to other useful resources, click [here](./readme.md#aporeto-zero-trust-network-security-enforcement).

## Aporeto Namespaces
Aporeto namespaces are used to logically group objects such as, `enforcers`, `network access policies`, `external networks`, and so on. Each namespace can have a parent namespace and children namespaces. Access control can he placed at the namespace level, and any parent namespace can propogate it's objects to children namespaces. This is an important detail as the overall structure can help simplify the deployment of security policy across a large group of Aporeto peocessing units if placed at the right place in the hierarchy. 


### Namespace Naming Convention
At this point in time, the Aporeto namespace naming convention and heiarachy is intended to: 
- align with the appropriate teams who may need access to create/read/update/delete policy
- provide an overall governance/enforcement point at the root/parent namespace 
- support the pattern where teams outside of **Platform Services** will own and manage their own Aporeto resources and policies

The top level root/parent namespace is: 
- **/bcgov**

The next child namespaces provide separation between *Platform Services* and *other teams*: 
- **/bcgov/platform-services**
- **/bcgov/apps**

The next set of child namespaces identifies either the type of enviornment or the sector: 
- **/bcgov/platform-services/non-production**
- **/bcgov/platform-services/production**
- **/bcgov/apps/nr**

Please see the next section for the current namespace mapping policy. 

### Namespace Mapping Heirarchy and Access Control
The following table outlines the namespace heirarchy and high-level access / ownership. Please update this table periodically as new teams are onboarded into the platform. 

| Team / Sector     | Namespace                                                     | Description                                                     | Access Control                       | Notes                                                                                                             |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| The namespaces for platform related policies |
| Platform Services | /bcgov                                                        | Root / Parent Namespace                                         |                                      |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services                                      | Platform-Services enforcers and policies                        | DXC / Platform Services              |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production                       | Non Prod Container Platform Resources                           | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops              | Kamloops Non Prod Container Platform Resources                  | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops/lab          | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops/lab/ocp311   | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        | Holds all lab cluster enforcers and base policies                                                                 |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops/lab/ocp311/* | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        | Child namespaces are automatically created /mapped to OpenShift Projects. End users don’t leverage this cluster.  |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/production                           | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/production/kamloops                  | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        |                                                                                                                   |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/production/kamloops/pathfinder       | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        | Holds all production pathfinder cluster enforcers and base policies                                               |
| Platform Services | /bcgov/platform-services/production/kamloops/pathfinder/*     | No description                                                  | Access propagated from parent        | Child namespaces are automatically created /mapped to OpenShift Projects                                          |
| Nobody            | /bcgov/apps                                                    | Parent namespace to hold sector related enforcers and policies for components **outside the Platform**  | No access definied at this level yet | General namespace to separate App or Team specific resources from Container Platform related resources            |
| NR                | /bcgov/apps/nr                                                | Natural Resources Sector                                        | NR Team                              |      Reserved for components outside the Platform                                                                                                             |
| NR                | /bcgov/apps/nr/non-prod                                       | Natural Resources Sector Non-Prod                               | Access propagated from parent        | Reserved for components outside the Platform                                                                                                                          |
| NR                | /bcgov/apps/nr/non-prod/calgary                               | Natural Resources Sector Non-Prod Calgary                       | Access propagated from parent        | Reserved for components outside the Platform                                                                                                                          |
### Namespace Automation
There are two key automations in place for Aporeto Namespace management: 
- The Aporeto Operator synchronizes OpenShift projects into child namespaces
- A Namespace Management playbook has been created to codify all higher-level namespaces and access control
  - Currently resides in the private repo [bcgov-c/platform-services-secops](https://github.com/bcgov-c/platform-services-secops)
  - This playbook should be used for authorization and namespace management and **manual configuration should be avoided**
  - The desire is likely to have this playbook fully integrated into a GitOps approach


## Base Policies 
A series of ["base" policies](https://github.com/BCDevOps/platform-services/tree/master/security/aporeto/build/ansible/templates/network_access_policies) exist for the Platform specifically. These platform-level base policies are applied relative to the namespaces they need to be enforced upon; for example, the lab base policies are maintained in `/bcgov/platform-services/non-production/kamloops/lab/ocp311` while the production pathfinder base policies are maintained in `/bcgov/platform-services/production/kamloops/pathfinder`. These base policies are used to ensure that the OpenShift platform operates correctly with Aporeto deployed and are configured during the installation of Aporeto into the platform. They do not leverage the [**BCGov NetworkSecurityPolicy Operator**](../architecture/high_level_design.md#the-bcgov-networksecuritypolicy-operator) that is used for managing application specific policies, and as a result, the platform-level base policies can only be managed by the Aporeto ansible playbook or through the Aporeto CLU/UI with the appropriate permissions by the users with the admin access to the Platform. The playbook is the preferred method for updating base policies and ensuring all changes are captured in code. 

Please refer to the **Playbook Flow** section of the Ansible [Build Docs ](../build/ansible/readme.md#playbook-flow-install) for a list of the base policies and their descriptions. These are created in the `apply_policies.yml` section of the playbook. 

### Policy Naming Conventions
There are no hard restrictions on what developers will use for naming their policies. Every policy created by an end-user in the platform should have a name that follows the convention: 
- `custom-[object-type]-[object-name]`

Developers can use any name that they wish for the `object-name`, however, it should be easy to determine what the policy does by it's name. This will help other team members when they are reviewing these objects. Some examples are outlined in the [developer guide](../docs/CustomPolicy.md). 

### Fallback Policies 
Aporeto has a concept of **Fallback Policies** that can be used to generate a more permissive and forgiving policy that would be used if users have not created any other matching policy. It was determined that with the desire to achieve a Zero Trust network enforcement policy that fallback policies are not leveraged in this deployment. New container-platform teams will need to consider the desired network flow of their applications as early as the design phase and will **manually create NetworkSecurityPolicy objects** at the first deployment to allow network traffic to flow. 

### Developer Controlled Policies
Each OpenShift project/namespace is directly mapped to an Aporeto child namespace and developers are enabled to create/read/edit/delete Network Access Policies for their applications. This is achieved through the **BCGov NetworkSecurityPolicy Operator** and `NetworkSecurityPolicy` custom resources. Please refer to the [Developer Docs](../docs/README.md) for additional details and instructions. 

**:point_up: Note**
> Network security policies in a child namespace **cannot** override policies that are created at a parent or higher level. This permites teams to create more granular policies for their applications, but security teams within government can apply high-level policies that are propagated to these child namespaces. 

## Operations
This section describes any additional operational design decisions that apply to this solution. 

### Audit
The [Aporeto Console SaaS](../readme.md#accessing-the-console) solution provides a complete audit trail of every policy CRUD activity. It has a search engine that can be used to identify actions taken by specific users. 

### Backup
A backup CronJob has been created to backup all configurations and policy within the `/bcgov` namespace on a daily basis. This can be used as secondary audit trail of daily configuration changes and can be leveraged if needed to re-import specific configurations into the Aporeto SaaS console. These backups are stored in the private git repo [bcgov-c/platform-secops-netpol](https://github.com/bcgov-c/platform-secops-netpol). Please refer to that repository for more details if you have the required access. 


## Access to Aporeto Console (Coming soon...)
Access control to Aporeto namespaces in Aporeto Console (https://console.aporeto.com) is managed through the Namespace Automation playbook referenced above. In order for users to gain access to their namespace, they must: 
- have the appropriate authorization policy created by the Namespace Automation playbook (work in progress)
- have a proper email account tied to their GitHub ID
- have their GitHub ID added to BCDevOps organization in GitHub (requires the 2FA enabled)

### KeyCloak OIDC Configuration: 
KeCloak SSO - prod and dev - instances have been configured as OIDC providers for access to the Aporeto Console.   
- pathfinder-sso-prod
- pathfinder-sso-dev

It's likely we will remove the dev OIDC provider option as the solution is more widely used.
The KeyCloak prod intance uses the following realm for client access: `8gyaubgq`. Further details are avilable in the [admin docs](../admin/readme.md).
