security/aporeto/architecture/high_level_design.md, before:

# High Level Architecture
This deployment focuses on the following key components: 
- Aporeto Enforcer Daemonset
- Aporeto Kubernetes Operator
- BCGov NetworkSecurityPolicy Operator

#### The Aporeto Enforcer Daemonset
Every node within the cluster runs an Aporeto Enforcer, which is responsible for receiving policy and performing enforcement of the configured policy. It is also responsible for reporting back to the Aporeto cloud control plane. 

#### The Apoerto Kubernetes Operator
The Aporeto Kubernetes Operator is responsible for synchronizing OpenShift projects to Aporeto child namespaces. This is importnat as it helps enforce multi-tenancy across projects  and allows for teams to have different networksecuritypolicy configurations. While it is also capable of configuring policy via custom resources, the BCGov has decided not to leverage this feature in favor of a custom operator. 

#### The BCGov NetworkSecurityPolicy Operator
A custom operator has been developed to create a simplified user specification for configuring network security policies. This allows the BCGov to modify the back-end enforcement technology if desired without having to teach the teams a new specification.

![](./assets/bcgov-aporeto-high-level.png)

Commit message:

A couple of minor updates for Dev Guide (#447)
* A couple of minor updates for Dev Guide

* Added descriptions and metadata to all markdown files under security/aporeto that were included in Dev Guide

* minor heading change

security/aporeto/architecture/high_level_design.md, after:

---
description: An overview of the high level components installed on the BC Gov's Openshift platform as part of the Zero-Trust Security Model implementation.
tags:
- next gen security
- custom network policy
- Aporeto
- networksecuritypolicy
- zero trust
- openshift security
- platform security
- application identity
- policy backup
- policy change audit
- namespace hierarchy and ownership
---

# Zero Trust Network Model - High Level Architecture
This deployment focuses on the following key components: 
- Aporeto Enforcer Daemonset
- Aporeto Kubernetes Operator
- BCGov NetworkSecurityPolicy Operator

#### The Aporeto Enforcer Daemonset
Every node within the cluster runs an Aporeto Enforcer, which is responsible for receiving policy and performing enforcement of the configured policy. It is also responsible for reporting back to the Aporeto cloud control plane. 

#### The Apoerto Kubernetes Operator
The Aporeto Kubernetes Operator is responsible for synchronizing OpenShift projects to Aporeto child namespaces. This is importnat as it helps enforce multi-tenancy across projects  and allows for teams to have different networksecuritypolicy configurations. While it is also capable of configuring policy via custom resources, the BCGov has decided not to leverage this feature in favor of a custom operator. 

#### The BCGov NetworkSecurityPolicy Operator
A custom operator has been developed to create a simplified user specification for configuring network security policies. This allows the BCGov to modify the back-end enforcement technology if desired without having to teach the teams a new specification.

![](./assets/bcgov-aporeto-high-level.png)
