security/aporeto/admin/auth.md, before:

# Aporeto Authentication and Authorization
Aporeto can use many different types of authentication sources in order to provide access to the platform. These could be standard Aporeto-managed accounts, or through an enterprise provider via OIDC or LDAP.

## OIDC
Aporeto is currently linked to the **sso-dev** for testing with the GitHub realm. 
- When logging into the console, specify the OIDC account and provider information
![](assets/oidc_signin.png)  


## OIDC Configuration
The following OIDC configurations are in place: 
- sso-dev
  ![](assets/oidc_config.png)
  Or the configuration as code (exported from the **Data Explorer**)
  ```
  APIVersion: 0
  data:
    oidcproviders:
      - clientID: aporeto
        clientSecret: **[REMOVED]**
        default: true
        endpoint: 'https://sso-dev.pathfinder.gov.bc.ca/auth/realms/_github'
        name: pathfinder-sso-dev
        subjects:
          - preferred_username
  ```

## Authorizing Users
Each user that needs access to the platform must be added to the appropriate Authorization policy at the right level within Aporeto. 

The following Authorization Policies were created in the UI:
- admin-users
  ![](assets/aporeto_authorizations.png)  
  Or the same configuration as code (exported from the **Data Explorer**)
  ```
  APIVersion: 0
  data:
    apiauthorizationpolicies:
      - authorizedIdentities:
          - '@auth:role=enforcer'
        authorizedNamespace: /bcgov-devex
        description: Policy to grant needed access to your Enforcers.
        name: '[auto] Enforcers authorization policy'
        propagate: true
        propagationHidden: true
        protected: true
        subject:
          - - '@auth:organization=bcgov-devex'
            - '@auth:ou:aporeto-enforcerd=true'
            - '@auth:realm=certificate'
      - authorizedIdentities:
          - '@auth:role=namespace.editor'
        authorizedNamespace: /bcgov-devex
        name: admin-users
        propagate: true
        subject:
          - - '@auth:email=husker@arctiq.ca'
          - - '@auth:email=jason.leach@fullboar.ca'
          - - '@auth:email=jeff.kelly@arctiq.ca'
  identities:
    - apiauthorizationpolicy
  label: Shriekseed Iguana
  ```

Commit message:

add prod oidc and update screenshots

security/aporeto/admin/auth.md, after:

# Aporeto Authentication and Authorization
Aporeto can use many different types of authentication sources in order to provide access to the platform. These could be standard Aporeto-managed accounts, or through an enterprise provider via OIDC or LDAP.

## OIDC
Aporeto is currently linked to the **sso-dev** for testing with the GitHub realm. 
- When logging into the console, specify the OIDC account and provider information
![](assets/oidc_signin.png)  


## OIDC Configuration
The following OIDC configurations are in place: 
- sso-dev
  ![](assets/oidc_config_dev.png)
  Or the configuration as code (exported from the **Data Explorer**)
  ```
  APIVersion: 0
  data:
    oidcproviders:
      - clientID: aporeto
        clientSecret: **[REMOVED]**
        default: true
        endpoint: 'https://sso-dev.pathfinder.gov.bc.ca/auth/realms/_github'
        name: pathfinder-sso-dev
        subjects:
          - preferred_username
  ```

- sso-prod
  ![](assets/oidc_config_prod.png)
  Or the configuration as code (exported from the **Data Explorer**)
  ```
  APIVersion: 0
  data:
    oidcproviders:
      - clientID: aporeto
        clientSecret: **[REMOVED]**
        default: true
        endpoint: 'https://sso.pathfinder.gov.bc.ca/auth/realms/_github'
        name: pathfinder-sso-dev
        subjects:
          - preferred_username
  ```

## Authorizing Users
Each user that needs access to the platform must be added to the appropriate Authorization policy at the right level within Aporeto. 

The following Authorization Policies were created in the UI:
- admin-users
  ![](assets/aporeto_authorizations.png)  
  Or the same configuration as code (exported from the **Data Explorer**)
  ```
  APIVersion: 0
  data:
    apiauthorizationpolicies:
      - authorizedIdentities:
          - '@auth:role=enforcer'
        authorizedNamespace: /bcgov-devex
        description: Policy to grant needed access to your Enforcers.
        name: '[auto] Enforcers authorization policy'
        propagate: true
        propagationHidden: true
        protected: true
        subject:
          - - '@auth:organization=bcgov-devex'
            - '@auth:ou:aporeto-enforcerd=true'
            - '@auth:realm=certificate'
      - authorizedIdentities:
          - '@auth:role=namespace.editor'
        authorizedNamespace: /bcgov-devex
        name: admin-users
        propagate: true
        subject:
          - - '@auth:email=husker@arctiq.ca'
          - - '@auth:email=jason.leach@fullboar.ca'
          - - '@auth:email=jeff.kelly@arctiq.ca'
  identities:
    - apiauthorizationpolicy
  label: Shriekseed Iguana
  ```
